# Starting out with Dreem (using windows)
[//]: # Walkthrough on how to install Dreem and write you first few apps (from a coders perspective) 

Downloading and installing
--------------------------

- download server and client
- install node.js
- read the server readme to find out about the environment settings needed for the dreem server to work
- on windows - this means:
    * set DREEM_ROOT = dreemfolder (relative to server)
    * set DREEM_PROJECTS_ROOT = an optional extra folder to be used for your own projects (also relative to serveR)
- The projects folder is server on localhost:8080/projects/
- The dreem folder contains a folder /docs and /examples that can be used to find out more about the system
/docs/api contains autogenerated documentation about Dreem
- install the coffeescript compiler if you want/need to edit the main layout.coffee file
- run the server: node server.js
- To build the docs, you need to:
    * install Ruby 2+
    * install the developer tools.. make sure to install the mingw64-32 version.
    * JSDuck version 5.3.4 ("gem install jsduck")
    * GEM might need an upgrade for the SSL cert -> https://gist.github.com/luislavena/f064211759ee0f806c88
    * Warning - empty .md files will kill jsduck with cryptic messages!
	* Also - new guides in Markdown format need a #document header. or else.

Building a thing with Dreem
--------------------------
* Start with a blank html document that loads the Dreem layout script and its dependencies in the header:
    	<script type="text/javascript" src="../lib/jquery-1.9.1.js"></script>
		<script type="text/javascript" src="../lib/acorn.js"></script>
		<script type="text/javascript" src="../lib/coffee-script.js"></script>
		<script type="text/javascript" src="../layout.js"></script>
		<style>
			html,body
			{
				height:100%;
				margin:0px;
				padding:0px;
				border:0px none;
			}
			body 
			{
				font-family:Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif;
				font-size:14px;
			}
		</style>

* Add a root "view" tag to replace the usual "body"
* Add components
* Components are fixed to 0,0 unless you either give them an x or y property, or you add a "layout" class node to the main container
    * spacedlayout can stack things horizontally or vertically using fixed spacing

General observations
-------------------
* new classes default to "view" type
* setter functions are "filters" - you return the value you actually want to be set on the property
* Handlers are created INSIDE the instance of the thing that fires the event.

Open questions/missing parts
--------------------------
* figure out missing parts
* sane layouting constructs + defaults  
    * the way of the least surprise.. the defaults should work + look good.   
* updateparent is currently NOT the default for layouts?
* looper/replicator needs work?
    * Always rebuilds all items on data update
    * Samples dont really show how the data attribute is used to fill in the component
* when does an expression get re-evaluated?
* margin/padding for views
* split view abstraction (automatically add draggers between all subviews?)
* list view abstraction (contain + scroll stuff..)
* tree views
* slidered containerviews